Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that thinks chat GPT's arse looks amazing in those shorts.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm Don, and I'm that giant jumbo Christmas size black stick of charcoal that you think you're going to write the completely gay and fun sci-fi versions of The Tempest and King Lear, but you end up with no audience because they can't see it because it all falls apart.
Not like this podcast.
Happy Christmas.
So we are here to watch episode 18 of Space 1999, which is called the Infernal Machine.
And it is by some people I've never heard of and directed by someone else I've never heard of.
We have because we've seen...
It's actually Elizabeth Burrows, not Anthony Turpolov, but he's written several stories that we've thoroughly enjoyed this season as well, including Remember Force of Life.
We loved that.
He might have written that.
Check my little notes here, but I do believe.
He's done us some great service.
And in fact, David Tomlin has done a few other episodes around this area and some that we've not yet seen.
I can't see any reason to delay just going straight in.
Collision course.
That's why I remember he wrote that.
Excellent.
An excellent episode.
All right, so we'll go in.
We've got 50 minutes to feel with our reminiscences of watching this before.
And so I'm just going to say our key word.
The word is robosexual and the next time I say that word.
I want you, Richard, to press the play button along with our viewer at home.
So here goes robosexual on the should.
Yay.
Now the music is really wild here.
You know why it's so good?
It's from the Thunderbirds?
It's about 3 seconds up when the Eagles launch.
It's all Warner Chapel Library news. which is a bit sad.
But, um, well, we, oh, okay, no alert this week, just, just Paul's being shoved through a blender again because he's been.
No, the poor man was actually having a malignant cyst removed from his neck.
Yeah, which was so in truth.
So, so in other words, yeah, we couldn't get Prentice this week.
But we do get that bloke from the 80s sitcom heaven.
Oh, no, he's from Vicar of Dibley. that's right Gary Walton.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, actually, I mean, we could say that Paul is having deleterious effect from his mushroom binge last month.
Ah, yes.
We should have said that, except, you know, not in broadcast order.
He's only 31.
We're going to get there because there are worse things to come on that.
I think that he is absolutely like a villain.
Like, I just can't see how he plays a nice person.
And maybe Prentice is a bit like that too.
He's really good and he does always play the cranky, marvellous chap.
Yeah.
Gorgeous.
Trying to remember what I'd seen him in.
Oh, brush strokes.
Yeah, I remember that.
The new Avengers.
That is in bride said revisited.
Thank you.
Minder all the time.
Robin of Sherwood.
Rum pole.
That's interesting.
Lots of the bill.
So it's a rough join.
It's a rumpole pre-union.
Here comes the Bissell carpet cleaner of space.
It's the 1st thing and the last thing through my mind.
I think it's incredible.
It's the one thing that I remember apart from the fact that rum poles in it is this incredible model.
Martin Bauer, again, designed and built in his dad's back shed. 2 versions.
The big one.
It looks so huge.
It's only 13 inches long.
It's just a little longer than your school ruler or your wildest fantasy.
And the other one that we done that we just saw on the wide screen was only 6.5 inches long.
It just looks incredible.
So average size, yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
Nothing to be ashamed of.
It has a motorised tube inside it that auto rotates and he had to keep fiddling with the with the paddle steamer things.
Oh yeah, I was really thinking we were going to be reshooting showboat for this one.
What did you think of it at the time?
I just thought you saw it.
I just thought it looked incredible.
And because it looks like... field generators.
Even at that age.
There's something spide-rish about it.
Like it seems like it's advancing on you with these legs going around and around.
And because it's like nothing you've ever seen.
And because they refer to it in dialogue as a machine rather than a spacecraft, you know, and that's sort of slightly odd, but look at, it just slowly advanced.
No, I'm so sorry.
As the quasi-American Philistine.
It reminds me of the preschool toy that you would roll and all the balls would fall.
Poppy, poppy, roller ones. scary.
I get you on that.
I got that little dome at the front too, where you expect the balls to just...
Richard, do you know if Paul Morrow had to, um, had to have his medical procedure at short notice?
Because I do wonder why because...
Right, okay, because, you know, 2 months ago we had an episode where Paul was, oh, on the planet.
So Kano filled in for his role and Tanya filled in volcanos, right?
Because on one of our previous episodes, probably just the last one, Nathan had mentioned that, yes, in the script notes, Kyno was always meant to be 2IC, 3IC, 4IC, when Paul's away having his badminton bracket was strong.
It is rather sinister how slow it moved.
It's wonderful I think.
So trepidacious, isn't it?
And the sense, you're right about the arachnic qualities of it.
I hadn't thought about that before. and even the colouration with just little dashes of danger orange.
But that, it's like about to hit the camera and it doesn't slow down.
Like I think it's really great.
It might be apart from the set inside the best thing, oh, and Leo McCern, obviously.
Like those are the 3 memorable things, I think.
It is absolutely...
But it's the pace of this thing, and you're right.
I think Brendan might use his D word.
Digetic.
That's the one.
But it does feel as the tension ramps up and it does it in acts.
It actually does it in pieces, just as if it were, you know, it is very pastiche, Shakespeare.
But it is, isn't it?
Even the structure of it in the way that the, the, well, it's the tempest, but with Lear is Prospero.
I mean, I think, yeah, I mean, there's something, I think there's something weird about the structure of it, and I wonder if it's not just a little bit too loose.
I kind of find myself missing Leo McCern in person in the 2nd half. very dead.
Yeah, he is quite dead.
Which is the thing.
So, Liam McCern's a Sydney boy.
He grew up in Randwick.
At the age of 15, he was involved in a horrific workshop accident as an apprentice in which a piece of metal trigger warning went into his left eye.
And eventually the eye had to be removed.
So he does have a glass eye in this and had from a sort of childhood.
And that's why his eyes aren't properly closed when he's dead later on.
You'll see it later.
I thought it was space wizard thing.
Yeah, no, no, no.
It was just a sort of weird glass, I think.
Apparently he used to leave the eye around the set in rum pole.
Yeah.
There's a nasty moment where Helena finds someone finds it in a specimen job, but she's too much of a lady to come.
All my other petri dishes.
Apparently he was a bit of a rapscallion.
This was filmed very quickly, though, and with great order.
Well, it's David Tomlin, who was, you know, the star of UFO directing, and of course, Patrick McGuan's best mate.
So, you know, he really is responsible for much of the look and pace of the prisoner.
Right.
But we've said before, exactly, David Tomlin was then totally out of scale.
If you if you're watching this in the bath.
Now, these pods remind me of the as they approach and go in.
Thunderbird 2 pod.
It does feel like it's actually one of the paddles, but yeah, I know, but it took me a while to work that out.
This is great.
The lift thing just looks incredible.
Used to have a more team pump spray.
It doesn't look cool.
Like the models are so great.
They are so good.
Just tremendous stuff.
Oh, that's good.
So that's meant to be one of the spindles of the pattern, yes.
Oh, okay, that they're going on. saying, I will return. get another part.
Yeah, he won't.
I will get another.
He's striding around the place like he owns the place.
I don't know what happens.
There's a whole lot of arched back leaning into the desk action from young Gareth.
Off to the snow they go.
So we're about to go on board the machine and just the scale of this set is so incredible.
It's all real, isn't it?
Oh, it's the whole soundstage.
So it's all of Sunstage M. But this door that we're in front of, look at the camera tilt and reveal that the door is how tall is that?
As tall as you can do it.
Yeah.
Yay.
Anyone for pinball?
And and given that Martin and Barry looked very normal when it was down near them, I don't think there's a wide angle lens on there.
It's just normal.
Yeah, yeah.
It's yoko owner's appointment.
It looks incredible, doesn't it?
I love the ice.
It's the set from Tommy. mix, won't it?
So that makes them the balls.
Yes.
It is quite gorgeous. although it's a bit ad hoc when it's Keith Wilson designers, again.
And so nicely done that he took his inspiration from their leisure suit, space jumpers.
So it's the same scarlet orange.
Yeah, it is a pantone colour.
And yes, I can give you the number if you wish to know what it is.
I'll have to go and get it because I've got a mug in it.
I think your microphone is that colour?
Alpha orange.
It certainly is.
So these, the things too, those big piles of things that are apparently plastic barstools with a big plastic sofa on the table.
I just thought that's why we were playing pinball game.
That's such a clever thing to do.
It's a red pastel fibreglass chair on top of ditzel stools.
They're 3 red ditsor stools stacked on top of the other.
They're bar stools, so they're quite tall.
Yeah.
And here we have Ara's old throne, which has gone through the spray shop.
Is it the ghost of Christmas present?
Yeah, it is.
But I mean, that's incredible too, how high the camera is, that crane shot, which goes over the shower curtain into his kind of bedroom without even knocking.
Yeah.
And, you know, that kind of crane shot needed like 3 men on the end of the crane pushing it down.
Right. at this time. unbelievable Even now, because for the dear listeners who don't know, I work in reality TV.
On MasterChef, they have a crane and it has like weights, the same weight plates you will find at the gym to help it go up higher.
So, you know, there is some mechanisation in there, but there is still the practical element.
I just love that he's got his old 70s futon and bath salts next to the can of fanta, but I'm just, but there's no Jacuzzi sofa.
Oh that's where Victor comes in.
It is incredibly sexy.
It is like a sort of 60s office, high-end office, but also, you know, He's reading wearing one of Maverick Chun's party cafe.
I know a lot of secrets.
In fact, it is a bit sort of Maverick translated himself go.
This, you know, is in Frank Thring's bathroom. hanging out for the last 10 years.
So I'm going to say that if this Leo McCern was here in the room with us, he would be the oldest thing.
No. other than the furniture.
He would only be older than Brendan.
No, stop that.
He is 55.
No, I'm 56.
I'm older than Levi.
So am I. And so is Richard.
Richard.
So we're all older than Leo McCern as companion.
That's unfair.
And honestly, he looks not unlike my dad here, except my dad is quite a bit thinner on top, but he still has the length, if you'll pardon the expression.
And he has that...
He does have a BBC beard, doesn't he?
Well, you know, he has no Patrick Magoon shaving him for the last 4 years, so...
That is quite a kinky episode.
Oh, did we all notice the delightful bit of tricky perspex action on the desktop?
Yeah what is that?
It looks like an orrery or something.
It's actually the same little bit of tat.
No, it's just it's just a little piece of tat, but it was just in last season's talk to who.
I have to try and think which one it was.
I have to think back.
So what, that would be season 13?
I, I, I think it, I think it also turns up in Doctor Who, again, as part of Kara's face.
Oh, it's the Green Death.
That's right.
It's in boss's set and the Green Death.
I remember now.
Yes.
It's a bit of boss.
Is that a 1st edition D&D character sheet?
That's a 1st edition.
With all of the circuits.
With all the boxes.
So are very complicated.
I can still calculate Thacko, but...
Well, that wasn't 1st edition, though.
That's much later.
Oh, sorry, 2nd edition.
I think I've sold it now, but a little while ago, I picked up a bundle of seeing a master system games that there was an advanced Dungeons and Dragons, but the Seager master system.
Oh, you didn't play the one on the television.
It was very rudimentary.
Speaking of which, okay, we can talk about the score when you want to, but what are you going to say?
Well, I just want to talk about the relationship between Gwent and Companion because that was the other thing that I think was memorable to me is that they were very, very clearly a married couple.
Best warning against AI.
I've seen this.
Yeah, well, yes.
Yeah, as a dramatic presentation.
That's what I was thinking I was watching it again this week.
This is kind of where we're going.
We see, I was just sort of thinking like bickering, you know, with my husband after all. you dead yet?
That's it.
It's like 20 something years in. you know what I mean?
Like, uh, and what happens when you graft a soul onto a chip?
How does that soul interact?
Where does it learn its ethics?
Are they innate in reasoning or are they?
It's a big philosophical.
Elizabeth Burrows, who was Turpolov's wife, had done an English and philosophy major, and she was quite significantly the thinking of writing, but their scripts have been the best this season.
No, no offence to Johnny Byrne, who's amazing, but he's a straight and clean and great and good hard SF.
Whereas these are really introspective.
Well, they orange.
Very orange.
They also write deaths of the Dominion together, which of course talks about the quality of life and the quality of death.
Yeah, and beards, the quality of beards and GHD hair straighteners.
And, you know, Leo's not quite as hot as Brian Blesser, but he's giving it a red hot go.
He reminds me of Peter Houston off in Logan's run.
Yes.
Where is cats?
Now that's still a year to come out.
That doesn't come out till 76.
My favourite story about Peter Houston of is when he was playing Poirot, one of Christie's children or grandchildren who was advising on the set, came up to him and said, you don't look anything like you.
Poirot doesn't look anything like you.
And Ustenov's reply was, he does now.
And he did 7 films, for goodness sake.
Oh, yep, I see the stools now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But it's this very strange thing about this is a person or is it a machine?
And, yeah, like, and like, this is a version of him that has now got out of control.
He made a dating AI.
He put together one of those AI companion dolls.
It's just text.
So the orange daybed is actually one of Gwen's hands. ruminations.
But getting back to what you were saying, Richard, there's there's been in the news recently, sort of an app that you can program to be a dear departed person, like you can put in your chat logs with someone who's no longer with us to create an avatar of them.
And I read a very interesting article, sort of philosophically.
It, like, what does this mean for grief and loss if we can just replicate people in an app?
And what, you know, what does that mean for the original person and et cetera?
And, you know, it wasn't, this is terrible.
But it was kind of like, this is strange and weird.
I have very low expectations of these LLMs getting much better than they are already, and I think they're mostly terrible.
I think when we jump to quantum, yeah.
Well, maybe, but like I just think it's just possible that this is as good as they get and they're not very good.
And so I don't know.
Like, I don't know that there's anything sort of that we're not up against something that we have to kind of invent new philosophies for or think about super carefully.
You know, the AI doesn't have feelings and we don't owe it anything, morally speaking, I think.
So this is more fantastic than that.
And there is a sense in which I don't quite know what it's about.
Like there's a sense in which it is about grief.
Um, and I think I found myself incredibly moved by Gwen's, um, grief at the death of the companion, like really quiet moved in a way that I wasn't expecting at all.
I'd get a real east and west clash. were you getting that?
I mean philosophically and theologically on this. if Gwent standing around.
And by the way, he's Welsh.
He's not alien.
Powers, Gwen Powers, whatever, castle, treble off, whatever.
No, you know.
He's, um, he's the Western personification of our moral philosophy and lots of God Shakespeare.
And Gwent is both Ariel and perhaps the thread of the ego, which is a very Buddhist eastern precept of who we are and where we stand.
Now, yes, with both, both East and West has pointed this and discussed this, but I find that the friction, as we get, and we're not far off because there's going to be a lot of death soon in a very small scale, but wait for it.
Here we go.
Um, is that sense of where do we meet and how do we converse and who are you to see me and who am I to see you?
And we share a lot in common, but do you understand me and do I share the depths and breadth of, of my moral philosophy, is that your moral philosophy?
And there's that nice little bit of tension.
It's almost, you're getting that?
No, I actually, pew, pew.
I'm not sure.
Yeah, things are exploding on the screen.
Much of a measure, he just said.
Yeah, he did too.
Yeah, I wonder whether it is quite as well thought through as that.
It is these two, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, I should also point out, sorry, because I'll forget with, you know, Brendan and I share the same brain.
I hate bloody specky brains.
This is the very 1st script that Jerry Anderson himself script edits because Christopher Penfold had left in a flurry of talcum powder and indignation.
Oh, really?
Johnny Byrne, despite rumours, largely the ones he created himself, was never an official script yet.
He was just hanging around a lot because he loved it.
He was, and he wrote a lot of scripts because Jerry really liked what he did.
But this is all Jerry's editing.
No one else.
Jerry and the 2 riders.
I'm sorry, Brendan, what were you going to say?
Oh, no, I was just going to say about your idea with the philosophy.
I can spike it.
Sorry.
What's wrong with him?
I can certainly see that might have been like a starting point between and especially when you have 2 writers, I think you, you know, you have more chance to bounce ideas around.
And their husband and wife.
And, you know, science fiction is so often about the clash of 2 ideas to philosophies, et cetera.
Um, Uh, yeah, so I said, yeah, I certainly think that's a that's a possibility.
It just seemed to me that it just runs a little bit out of steam after the death of companion.
Really?
Yeah.
Well, um, because I thought the interesting thing was the relationship between Gwenton companion.
And like he's...
Yeah, but then it's just like, I'm going to torture you for various reasons and I'm not quite sure why.
And that's made for the, sorry, Don, your people.
But that's what I, I do think that there is a very kind of, it has a sort of, it has a kind of Star Trek series 3 thing where, and now we're just going to torture our main characters for a long period of time until the... characters.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I mean, you want to torture them.
Player left, flail right. a gruesome face.
The funny thing is, my Star Trek comparison would actually be earlier than that, and it would be the changeling.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because the changeling starts lashing out.
Yeah, yeah. when it cannot connect with its creator.
Yeah, yeah.
I need to mention at this point that Neptus is enwrapped by the episode.
She's watching the telly.
She's absolutely fair.
She's trying to follow McCern's glass eye.
Oh, this is the bit, the 1st bit that Jerry cut.
It has been filmed. not in the edit.
And is that our photo opportunity?
That is our photo opportunity.
But also I do love the way that Barbara lowers herself gently to the cast before the ship starts to ring the moon.
Because she's literally kind of too old for this.
She's not as old as the venerable Leo McCann.
No, like I'm not saying she's old, but I'm just, look, I'm just saying at 42 years of age and getting back into wrestling after some time off, I'm starting to think I'm too old to be true.
Did you say the same thing?
Isn't the scales of this gorgeous?
She doesn't look wonderful.
It's all overlay shots, you know. rollback and mix, yeah.
But I do wish that they had made more effort, and I know it's difficult with models. to convey the scale of it because there's one or 2 shots where it's absolutely towering over the buildings that it's next to and it needs to be something utterly terrifying.
Oh, they've got a dead Leo McCurn in the gift shop.
Barbarella's terrarium. even goes into the floor the same way.
But I just also love that it's pre-tron and pre- all of those little click click games used to get in their Christmas stocking.
All it needs is a few ball bearings.
That's why we have our 3 hours.
Oh, you've got to roll the ball bearings onto his eyes.
Ouch.
It's so hard.
Oh, oh, oh, the adults ones, they go lower down.
Look, the glass eye is still on.
That was his party piece, putting an oil spill in there.
It's quite upsetting, actually.
I've realised why they have the red deckles on the...
The hides are breathing?
Not even better.
Watch it as it goes down.
You get some beautiful Hitchcocky and, dare I say, German expressionist delighting effects.
Because they play with, and it's very really nicely lit for what is actually just a lot of plasterboard flats.
I mean, look, but look how tall it is. every shot. time's good.
That's just because of the paint.
Isn't that good?
That's beautiful.
Just a sound.
Biotorpedo.
Did you love that also that that little pot is too big?
It's a little cuisin air rod, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
And unfortunately, due to the, due to the restoration, you could see the the arm taking it out.
But I couldn't complain about it.
In my head, I'm hearing sinister ice cream van music.
Whenever it's flowing through space.
Like green sleeves, slow down slightly.
They dropped a couple of octaves.
Yeah, yeah.
There was a trend a few years ago with sort of upbeat video game music to play it in the minor key.
Yeah, I'm now imagining Greensleeves in a minor key.
Oh yeah.
It's beautiful.
I mean, it is massive.
The shadows, the kioscuro.
It's such a great model.
On what you were saying earlier about Gary Walthorn, Richard, and sort of the gusto he puts into it.
I do have to think, you know, for, yeah, an actor in an earlier stage of his career that he might have gone...
Because had it started broadcasting by this point?
No, no one had seen any of it until it was all in the can for season one.
I wonder if, you know, being called in for a Jerry and Sylvia production to fill in for a regular.
He's like this is my audition to get on this show.
There were 2 things.
It hadn't been seen yet.
Yeah.
Isn't that a gorgeous month?
We're watching the champions.
Look.
This is about the point where one of the 2 cuts occurs.
Martin is like, we haven't talked about Martin.
He's outstanding in this, just the quietness and the stillness and the threat that they're all holding.
They were really respected the Andersons technically.
And for having the biggest budgets in the UK other than the Dennis Spooner productions.
But it was a bit of a lark.
So, yes, it was seen as good, but, A, it wasn't regular work and B, it was a chance.
The fact was that it was new and vibe and cool, man.
And, you know, these kids are only 3rd here. they want to do it.
Sorry, the mirror shots coming.
I do love the entire party in the mirror.
Oh, yeah, I love that.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's like, who are you going to torture and kill?
Those guys over in the mirror.
Oh my god.
No, and yes, Barbara, your bum does look big in that.
But that's not a bad thing.
No, it's not.
And you're not even a bum man.
You said that.
Just ask, sir, mix a lot.
That's right.
We've just missed the little moment that Jerry cut, which was following Gwen's accusation that the elephants had killed companion a bit there.
And then it's really unfair because Helena gets to argue and make a big scene that if anyone was at fault, was, of course, Gwent himself, since she'd already told him that companion was ill and had to be taken back to, you know, Victor's lube shop, where, you know, plugs in, plugs in his bits and bobs.
But then weirdly, Gwent acquiesces, you know, agrees with her that and absolves her responsibility.
So I can see why Jerry cut it because it totally throws the tension at this point.
I think it's more interesting than actually anything else.
Yeah.
I mean, I think, you know, we have the thing here where Victor has realised that that Gwent is vulnerable because he only has finite energy.
And so that and 2 glass ice.
Yeah, that's right.
Well, that's it.
But also, I do think that thing where Gwen appears to go away, like where he says, I'm going and it's kind of like, well, is he the machine or isn't he?
Is he something that haunts the machine?
You know, I just don't think any of that stuff properly ends up getting developed, but I think it just raises questions, I think, that are interesting.
It's just so interesting that this generation of writers and viewers and everybody were terrified of computers and AI and the possibilities.
And our lot.
No, don't mind at all.
Fine.
Let's go for it. all turned around so quickly.
I will say that looking on social media, for every sort of person under 30 who's like, I've invented the torment Nexus AI.
There are 10 under 30 saying, don't fucking do that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know.
Yeah, that that's a great shot, isn't it?
Where they turn around and look at themselves and they realise they're kind of like the next victim.
Victor's bum is enormous Speaking of Victor, do we know when Barry Morse passed away?
Don't do this to me.
Oh, no, I'm just wondering if it was...
Yes, and it wasn't that.
I mean, was it 70s was 80s?
a good decade and a bit.
Well, I'm just...
You've got a bloody phone.
Get it out.
I was just thinking that sort of shot where he was sort of centre and throwing his hand around and sort of puckering a bit.
I'm like, why wasn't he considered for the 5 doctors?
Like he was giving it his best billy just then.
I thought so.
We'd only just, um...
He looked too much like the other doctors He could he could do 2 or 3 of the other doctors.
Yes, that's true Well, that would have saved the box. 1990 when he died.
Oh, right.
89.
So, yeah, to 2008.
Did he know he had a pacemaker before this?
Yes, it's come up a couple of times.
I missed it.
It's not just a pacemaker.
It's whole artificial heart.
Yeah.
He's like Captain Picard.
Only has, you know, wilder sex parties.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know.
He's never been to racer.
Exactly.
Yeah, he wasn't stabbed by anything.
Happens in racist, Stacy.
He wasn't stabbed by a Nausican. stabbed by a trick gone wrong.
He was married to his wife, Sidney Sturgis.
Well, that's one usually does, which is a train store, yeah.
For 60 years.
Oh my god.
I wonder if she knew.
You thought Gwenton and Companion had problems.
What do they talk about?
Yeah, no.
What you thinking about?
Would you love me if I was a stump?
Oh, hello.
Really?
Bit of classic Australian.
Wireless charge.
Fast wireless chosen.
It is, isn't it?
It's not even the future, god damn it.
And he's, well, this is said in the past, though.
Yeah, that's what it means. in the future and they've got better wireless charging.
It's a chi artificial heart.
He's super happy for someone who's just undergone cardiac arrest, isn't he?
He super chill.
Well, because he's not undergoing cardiac, I guess.
It tends to be a better state of affair, yeah.
It's the endolphins.
Yeah, do you think?
Space and dolphins.
Yeah, I prefer the space in porpoises.
This is the biggest shot of the electrical equivalent of crystal meth you could have.
Yeah, I think that's a plastic box.
Just reminds him of his 20s.
Is that the only artificial part?
Maybe it's not.
Something else?
Anything else he's got, too?
Yeah, Victor's now in I'm so happy we're about to die.
Oh my god.
Pictionary. saves the day.
Yes.
So I think it's ablest of them to write, I think he's blind on a piece of paper where he can't read it.
I think his vision is impaired.
He cannot say. would obviously be more appropriate for you.
I don't even know what that means because he can... should be they.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, I mean, he can say people coming in and out and he can aim his guns at people.
Well, maybe it's sort of like sensors.
No, he, yeah, yeah, you know, sensing pressure and whatnot, but can't actually see anything.
Glent has giant coke bottle glasses.
And you should only look at a small section of print at a time.
Okay, that makes sense.
Does any of you not think when you were young that surely Gwent is also sensitive to the surfaces in the ship and maybe that pen, you know, I remember, I could read.
I'm not so sure.
Look, the pace of this is so good.
By the way, since we were talking about Trek, Nathan, with um, Wait for it, Clang, um, your other possible invitation to the podcast listeners, uh, entitled Star Trek project.
Have you come across, um, Barry Morse's work for Trick, which is called conversations that walk speed.
It was written by Anthony Wynn, and it's interviews with actors and other professionals associated with all the incarnations in 2012 because they just went to Barry Morse.
Oh, there's our favourite shot.
Because he'd worked with most of them over his career.
The fugitive.
I think Shatnam was in the future.
Everybody was... which went from 63 to 67.
But yeah, he's just so well respected.
I have never seen him in anything apart from this.
Yeah, uh...
Yeah.
I mean, and I think he's incredible in this.
This was, you know, I've said before that when I was a kid and I tuned in and discovered the existence of series 2 and was crushingly disappointed.
The major thing that made me unhappy was the fact that Barry Morse wasn't in it.
And now as an adult, I think he's absolutely, you know, the best person in the in the regular cast.
Did you ever see Whoops Apocalypse when he plays Reagan?
Wow.
He plays Johnny Cyclops, the president.
It's also pressaging.
He's in the adventurer.
I mean, most of his big hits, zoo gang, were before our time.
John Mills was in that one.
But, um, but he did a lot of little cute things.
Martian Chronicles.
Oh, okay.
It's in JFK.
Frederick Forsyth films.
But yeah, more over there.
Also, hang on, how many eagles have we just lost?
Did we just see Alan in?
I think we lost three, but Alan's okay.
Oh, no, they minor damage or something.
The 1st two.
Eagles had exploded in the previous attacks.
Yes, that's right.
There was minor damage.
That it.
But those two, I think, have gone Kaputnik.
And we lost some tanks, which have appeared in other episodes, but I wasn't actually aware. aware of it. the 1st one they turn up.
Martin made it for this.
This is only...
Oh, this is SB 21.
Oh, okay.
So we've seen a couple of later ones, but yeah, this was actually quite late in the run.
There we go.
Bye.
Alan Shortly.
No, Alan's fine.
Like, 5 people just threw themselves on top of Clifton.
I mean, yeah, yeah, but not, yeah, but they didn't throw themselves in a sexy way.
Okay.
I think this is so cruel, but I'm really beginning to appreciate Prentice Hancock this week.
Oh really?
Yeah.
No, we had that theory that the less is in something the more the better he is.
But I do think he is significantly better than Richard from, um, it's the Vicar of Deepley.
Well, his name's Winters. isn't it?
Builder to his mates.
Well, I was actually expecting him to be deliberately there because he was going to be a guest star who turned evil or something.
Got killed.
Yeah, well, because Winters is someone who has no feelings, isn't it?
Like, that's why you...
She co-writes the theme to minder and sets giant robots.
But do you know what I mean?
Like, that's the kind of meaning.
Like when you call a character that.
And he is like that, but I just think he's a more villainous character.
Like I kind of like the...
The pushback from Prentice, though.
I don't know.
The tension that he manages to maintain with Martin, they've got a really nice dynamic between them.
They've just been told they have to stay and make space babies.
It's a bit late for that.
Yeah, I think he, like, must have been a very late edition.
I'm thinking like after rehearsal because Sandra just looked over her shoulder at Winters, who we've never seen before, but if she'd been looking over her shoulder at Paul, that makes perfect sense.
Yeah, okay.
And yeah.
And, um, I mean, look, looking at the Catacombs website, it says that apparently Prentice was in the makeup chair and one of the makeup ladies says, what's that on your neck?
Oh, wow, okay.
That was the cyst.
Yeah, so, yeah, he may have been called in like on day one, arrived day two.
And yeah, it's just his his apprentice's camera script.
We've scrubbed out tomorrow and written winters.
So Gwent needs Chinese takeaway.
Well, and the sexy eggplant sleeve.
That guy, that guy's beard.
Hot beard.
Yeah, that was that was an impressive.
They've all been in other episodes.
All these boys.
Pierre Quinton plays Quentin Pierre. some radical nominative casting there.
And the other 2 are in a few of them as well, including Butch, Captain Cremen.
So you nearly get a sense there, don't you, of how it dwarfs.
Like it's massively at all.
Yeah.
That's better.
By the way, kids are keen.
See the left forward section of the pod section that we can see there, that's where the moonbuggies go.
That's why when you see any action within the pod, that corners never visible.
Oh, there we go.
It's a whole ATV.
MTV.
I knew you wanted to know.
Maybe that's why there was acid in it that one time that leaked into all the supplies.
Yeah, that's where they keep the acid.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, if there's a vehicle in there.
Battery acid, there you go.
Yeah, yeah.
See, we made fun of it for nothing.
No, we were wrong to do that.
Doctor, your Uber is here.
Isn't this a great shot?
Just that suggestion of the eagle pod, and yet there's so little of it.
Yeah, yeah.
That's completely convincing. love that.
And also with the huge scale we've had before, it's like, what's this talk?
Oh, it's just the door for the eagle.
This is a normal sized door.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, we're about to see the big giant door, which I still can't get over. bent over bum. action.
Three mains for race.
That's terrible.
That's terrible stacking on that.
Oh, no, no.
Yeah, string rolls, yeah.
No, the esky.
The eskies.
That's got the rice.
Ooh, I like those lamps.
Are they gorge?
Do you think, like, maybe Gwen was an interior decorator back in Cardiff.
Well, he was the leading, everyone.
Remember he said?
He was like, I was the bestest of the whole bloody L lot of them.
On the planet Zemo.
I wonder why they let him go, really. there might be more to it than that.
He's always telling them, I want white surfaces. acres and acres of white and just touches of orange.
Can I just say that the spotlights are brilliant?
Yes, they are indeed.
They are really good.
And they're perfectly in sync with the camera movements, which is impressive.
It's just such a...
David Tomlin had worked on Caplin Scarlet.
So he didn't know how Mr. on Rings move around the set.
But I mean, it's just a genius way of indicating Gwen's attention in camera.
Yeah, in a very simple way.
It's very theatre.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then the green ones hurt.
Like when they green they...
Yeah.
Yeah No one likes the green ones.
No.
I always put them back in the packet.
So the professor doesn't get to, so it's going to be all 3 of them making babies together.
It's victims.
Well, I think don't queue, I think.
Well, there'll be a lot of watching.
Gwent and the doctor.
There's another line cut out that just before this, the scene before this, where Professor Bergman says to Gwent, but my artificial heart will keep me alive far longer than these 2 bastards.
Oh really?
I can see why Jerry cut it out, but it was filmed, yeah.
I said, you must let these 2 go because I can stay with you and you quite like the oldies, don't you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I kind of think that Gwen...
We've seen your browser history.
Yeah, see, see, the green one, the green light hurts.
Yeah.
Oh, that was so that was really Barbara throwing herself into it.
It's an ice cream headache, Ray.
Bloody lime spliced.
That's what it is.
That's true.
Now, that's why we don't have Midoriola. opening thing because they're using all the jowls.
Alan's sleeves are always on golden gay times.
Yeah, I thought so.
Alan had his head and beard his crotch a moment ago.
Yeah, I saw that too.
I thought that seems that seems nice and comfortable.
All mates together.
Also, how can they?
Oh, no, that's why.
I was going to criticise the set direction, but no, it's fine.
That is not the eagle door, that is.
No, that's our door.
They've had the windows...
They put the windows back.
See, look, there you go.
Scale.
Yeah, yeah, that's wonderful, isn't it?
Perfect.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they can't manage it all the time, but when they do, like, and that's really important, I think.
And of course, the interiors.
More than any other set, I think.
And we've had spectacular sets. from this show, like war games and collision course.
Well, it's the same set as collision.
Darian, I should say the same stage, but a lot of these flats.
There's not a lot of flats in collision course.
We'll have to go back, but yes, Surface is sweetie.
This is surfaces.
This is Edina monsoon space station.
Where of all my surface has gone.
Can you pick that up?
It's the, oh, what's that?
That's the crayon.
It's the crayon of...
Ah.
Reasonable Christmas.
No, no.
It's the machine that extrudes the marshmallows in Star Trek.
Oh, yes.
Oh, it's the raw material from Irishman. all carbon.
Oh, yes, sir.
Oh, I remember what I was going to say.
No, it's just a huge bloody spliff.
No wonder Victor's called...
Yeah, look at it.
He's not going to feed it to that, huh?
I did wonder where you were going with that.
That's the 2nd biggest charcoal I've ever seen.
That's right.
After that episode of South Park.
I should say to the listener, we're recording this on the very last day of work for several of us after a very long year.
So hence the mellowness.
Oh my god, you can all see all the fillings.
That must be the tinfoil ray.
It is.
It's the same tinfall they used to wrap the chocky Santas.
If they could charge all of their com locks together.
Find a port in the wall.
They could get rid of Gwent.
Because they've just realised that he's running out of that much.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, if they just gave everyone the heart of that.
Everyone plugging phones in here.
We should have just called him Alexa.
Yeah, and so how far in are we?
I mean, so we're quite close to the end?
Are we not?
Sorry, cat.
Matron.
Notice that Gwen's orifice has been flashing from... thirsty, thirsty.
Beat me to it.
Look at that wink.
The planet Zemo.
Winking orifice.
It's so great, is it?
It looks like an old winking one eye as we know him from.
Just the scale of it.
I've just never seen anything.
Let's be fan boys.
Where do you feel that chamber fits within the, what did you call it?
The dust off?
Yeah, the Bistle carpet.
Whereabouts?
It's right in the middle.
Just behind the dome.
Because they haven't worked out with the button to open the curtains for the dome.
I've got a feeling that the gravity is axial because of the way that the ship lies on.
The big shim is the spindle.
Yeah, so they're actually lying. all standing on the side of it.
No, the ceiling.
Well, the wall on the wall is all standing on a wall because the axis of the paddles is east-west.
Now, the other thing that worries me is that he's strong enough to destroy an entire universe.
And yet, well, where's he going to be after he does that?
Like, very philosophical.
Another inanimate carbon rock.
But one of the few things I recall from this as a child is the way it shatters.
And I did think, that's a lot of charcoal.
It's really hard to clean charcoal off a drawing, let alone.
There you go, isn't it?
beautiful, isn't it?
And Victor's going, oh, no one's going to freaking smoke that.
He's going to try, though, actually.
He only gives Gwen the smallest.
And I was just wondering about this shot, but of course, it is the characters in sort of... descending order of hype because that's Gwent and the and the crate on the left.
Yeah.
But it's a gorgeous shot, isn't it?
I mean, this is the closest we come to it introspecting.
Yeah.
But I just don't really get anything that interesting from it, I have to say, like, what does he learn?
Like, he learns that...
Well, but what Victor says to him is, wow, it was really vain creating a giant universe destroying version of yourself.
And he goes, yeah, actually, you're right.
Thanks. you know, and that's really it, I think.
Well, because it's a fair call.
It is true.
That's undoubtedly true. is to play.
But that's the thing. and none of the previous companions about the guts to say that.
Do you think there were previous companions?
No, I didn't say that.
No, okay.
Because it was a copy of his mind, which is why it's his voice.
I would say, fair enough.
And then it grew because of the machine intelligence.
Yeah, it's not entirely clear.
And I think that for a little while I did think like the companion was one of a series of companions.
Unless he's a 1000000 years old.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, he's kept in stasis and he doesn't need...
Need him often, which is why he woke up so...
So hangry.
But, you know, I think I think it's also the matter of.
You can be very good at giving advice to other people, but you're not necessarily good at taking your own advice.
Yeah.
And so it's, you know, what did John Paul Sartre say, hell, hell is being stuck in a room, stuck in a room for all eternity with your mates.
Or what about being stuck in a room for all eternity with yourself?
Yeah.
Like, it's hard to introspect without an external perspective.
And I think that's perhaps the most interesting thing about it.
But there's nothing in the crew or anything.
Like nothing's happening to any of our regulars that makes us think about that.
And I think in a more modern TV show, you would have the sort of parallels.
Oh, absolutely.
But, you know, we've talked about that with the show before in that the, you know, the main cast is it's kind of Seinfeldty.
There's no hugging, no learning.
Yeah, the main car.
It's very procedural.
Yeah.
But, I mean, I think that that's a thing to say after we've seen the incredible scenes where Tom Bates...
No, the scenes where it went is grieving for companion, which I've just, as I said, I just found them really moving.
Well, because they now have separation.
Now there is the ability to distance, recognise distance, and there's also time.
So yeah, that sense of loss is finally, able to be experienced.
It wasn't before.
Also, because they were bitching with one another, they were kind of adversary.
They were married a very long time. exactly right.
But did you get the power dynamic difference because I felt the horror of companion's position where it was a copy of his mind that grew larger and more powerful than him.
And his only power was covetching.
Yeah, yeah.
Or that he was still the top.
But I mean, they loved one another still.
Yeah, but the imbalance there and the fact that he just obviously saw this happen multiple times in his lifetime that they would find people take their shit and move on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just, at the end of his lifetime, perfectly designed to fit into Gwen's lot.
Oh, that always has many, many slots.
No, I think he asked for a carbon rod of this particular diameter and it's just, you know.
Was their computer always that bitchy or is it just for this episode?
Oh, she has a moment.
Because she was so bitchy in this one.
Also, that rod isn't that big.
That's actually quite a big chunk.
He didn't just put in a fingernail.
That's enough to just not just open the body.
It has enough power afterwards to do stuff.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He blows himself up.
Remember, he smashes into a thing.
Well, without his wife to tell him he's driving badly.
Oh, I feel sane.
That subtle slap on your thigh that they're doing the wrong thing.
Mind the cyclist.
Yeah, yeah.
I get a lot of change into this lane instructions.
It's a red light Christmas.
Okay, the lighting is beautiful, perfect for mere lighting, Dutch light.
Just all that.
Also, and nice little...
Beard squad is here.
In every single mid 70s conceptual art gallery you ever went to. got, you know, stuff on the walls, poles, bit of sculpture, still.
It's absolutely New York gallery with exactly the same kind of protagonists and exactly the same kind of coviching.
That's actually a map of the gallery.
Yeah.
That's why they've been in there such a long time.
I've got a question for the actorly members of this podcast which is pretty much all of you.
Just again, watching Martin.
Oh what a shot. wonderful. again.
Gorgeous. you, David Tomlin.
I don't think this would have worked if...
Landar was not a method actor, if he wasn't Steneslevsky.
That whole moment where he's got his little face pressed against the chicken rotisserie controls on the thing and looking back, that wouldn't have worked.
No.
But I mean, just that, just then, where all the lights go down as if we're and we're ending the scene, you know.
And now we've just got this big giant thing to get rid of.
I thought they'd have a lawn ornament.
I was really sad.
They'd have that big arse thing just looming over them for the rest of the show.
Actually, can you imagine the tech in that thing?
Oh, yeah, you're going to go and scavenge.
Also the information and what was recorded?
They could have really done well out of that bastard.
Probably even been able to get back home in it. looks so good.
So, yeah.
It's so brilliant isn't it?
It's really lovely.
Only 13.5 inches, I know.
Yeah, I know.
Eye watering.
And quote you, Richard, and don't you feel every single...
Oh, shit, though. that one, but okay.
There's Martin again.
No, it's not the inches. the girth.
Yeah.
Lonely blind creature.
Oh, it's both Caliban and Prospero at once, isn't he?
And there's a bit of Ariel in him as well.
What do you think, boys?
I was really touched.
Yeah, moments of it.
I'm sorry I moved my hand.
Oh, it's the cat.
The grief.
Yeah, I felt real.
Yeah. as real as anything this overly.
Actually, no, I think the more removed from reality, the easier it is to emotionally involve yourself, which is maybe a key point of SF and why it draws in young people.
It's very easy to click into it.
It's easy to do it.
Leo McCarren's voice as well.
I think that it's interesting that we're 18 episodes in.
And the motivations for the alien threats, antagonists, form of a better word.
I don't think we've really repeated any of them.
And I think I think here it's very interesting because it seems like we're repeating it.
It seems like, you know, this is something coming to take our shit and fuck us up, but actually what it really wants is companionship and when it can't have it, it accepts, okay, it's time to go.
Yeah, I don't think it was quite clear enough in what it was trying to do, and I did feel that it meandered a little bit after the death of companion.
And I thought that the primary dynamic, that dynamic between the 2 of them as husband and wife, like as a little gay kid, like that's super weird, but that was kind of like he's the same sex relationship being depicted on TV.
And now, do you know what I mean?
As someone even older than Leo McCann.
It definitely felt real.
That felt like a lived in relationship.
And I think having them deliberately play it as a marriage was actually a surprising choice for the time and it worked really well.
And that's, I think, why I found the death of companion so moving.
I actually find both deaths quite moving. before that reason.
And it's interesting you say that, because I think of Star Trek Metamorphosis, which very clearly, even though it's man and energy being, the energy being is Major Barrett.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
It's a lady energy baby.
It's a lady energy being who gets lady jealous.
Yeah.
This isn't another one where Beverly lights a candle in all Hill.
But the one abiding memory I have is that carpet sweeper slowly advancing on the on the camera.
It's unbelievably great.
It's so good.
Always better with every viewing and I want to go back and check my Shakespeare notes again.
Harold Bloom's notes, I would pick of the week on both Tempest and Lear.
It's more tempest, but I think perhaps if I'd read that before we'd watch this, I'd have even more portentous things to say, but it's Christmas.
It's Christmas.
So it was good.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'm going to plug some things.
We are nearing the end of our current season of 500 year diary, which is called the Colour of Monsters, and is about the work of Terrence Stix.
And if I get this out in time.
Tomorrow, as you listen to this, because you, obviously, prioritising it at the top of your podcast, Q. discerning listener, you will be able to hear our take on the 5 doctors.
Do you have anything to plug, Brandon?
Yes.
So after an unavoidable delay, Richard and I will be having a chat with someone very special for the three-handed game which should come out sometime in the in the coming week, we're very excited.
We're not announcing who she is yet.
It's not Linda Thorson, so we don't want to build it up too much.
No, not Linda Thorson, but she's in everything.
She's not in Doctor Who, and she's not in the Anderson series, but she's in everything else.
Yeah.
And I have to say she's been very, very gracious with giving us her time and attention.
So we're very much looking forward to that.
And on the 28th of this month.
Gounder Prime Day.
Oh, God, what is it?
19 +25.
The uh 44th anniversary of Garda Prime Day.
No, that's 6 dash 7.
Maximum power will be releasing its whole damn show retrospective, which I will start editing.
Yes, because it is 6 hours long.
Yes, yeah.
That was just the lubra.
You're leaving them in, I hope.
I took my microphone.
Yeah, the rest of it is Peter and Simon arguing.
Yeah, okay, yeah, cool.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, for God's sake, get some kind of moisturising routine happening before it's too late.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Thank you very much.
Happy Christmas.
Brilliant.